All right, this is just my brain dump of
all my thoughts about the presentation I'm
about to do. Let me confirm the
title first. I forgot what I set the title
to.
Ah, found the title.
My presentation's title is called Open and
Closed Loops, The
Economics of the LLMOS.
Okay, so there are a few things I want to
talk about in this presentation.
I noticed a lot of people when they say
large language models don't work,
it's because they're using it as a tool,
right?
So it's like a library. Whereas I'm going
to follow my existing workflow, I'm just
using large language models to speed
things up.
And their complaints are about, you know,
this thing is just
a slop machine and it
just constantly produce slops.
That has gotten a lot better in the past
year or two, a lot better.
And also, if you learn how to like, well,
I shouldn't say if you learn.
If you know how to tune them or guide them
with the skills and prompts,
the probability of them producing slop is
much, much lower nowadays, right?
And especially with technologies like RAG
and other kind of retrieval
sort of technology.
I think what people are missing is that
this technology fundamentally shifts
how you can work. Instead of just saying,
okay, I'm going to do exactly what I need
to do today.
Sorry,
I lost my train of thought. Instead of
saying, I'm going to do what I'm going to
do
today, but just with LLMs, I'm going to...
completely changed my workflow, right?
So that's the right way to work with large
language models because
with this, you know, intelligent or not,
that's a philosophical question, but with
this
layer of technology,
it can become the framework
of your company. It's the operating
system, right?
So instead of treating them as a set of
tools and a set of library, you treat them
as frameworks, whereas you are the
extension points.
And to provide context and judgment and
taste and
insights, only a human can provide.
A large language model cannot.
So
what does that mean exactly?
So this is going to be very recursive
and very meta.
you're going to feel like you're living in
the Inception movie because every single
system should be self-improving, right?
So what does it mean by open and closed
loop?
And what does it mean by the economics of
the large language model OS?
First is the open and closed loop, right?
So if you have a closed loop, the system
can just self-improve,
right? Everything is self-improving.
And
yeah, everything is self-improving.
It's an iterative system that just keeps
improving itself.
When it runs into a problem, it knows how
to fix itself.
Or you just write a skill to guide that
large-angle model on how to fix itself.
That's the closed loop, right?
An open loop is where a human needs to be
involved, right?
I'm going to take a pause here.
I need to do something else and I'll be
right back.
Okay, I'm back.
Yeah, where were we? Open and closed loop.
Okay. So yeah, so that's a closed loop.
An open loop is where a human comes in and
do something, right?
So the thing is, if you have one open
loop, that's extremely slow because human
will always be the slowest
and the most unreliable.
So yeah, it just slows down everything and
it just adds in many additional points of
failure.
Large language models may not be that much
better than human today.
I mean, in many tasks, they are already
better than human, right?
So
only in some tasks, they're not better
than human.
But you know, they're extremely cheap.
They're dirt cheap if you know how to use
them.
Be very efficient in your token usage.
And
yeah, they're just cheap. They're
efficient.
And if you can close the loop, they can
just keep improving.
But if you open the loop,
you better make sure that as a human, you
provide value.
And this is where the, well, actually,
before we talk about the opening loop and
the
providing value part in the presentation,
here is what I want to show
this kind of meta type of thinking closed
loop, right?
So
this is right now, this transcript.
The transcript of this is a
markdown file of my brain dump, right?
So it's audio recorded. It's going to be
transferred, transcript by Whisper,
OpenAI's Whisper.
And it's just going to be stored there in
the repository as additional context.
It doesn't need to be structured.
It doesn't need to be well thought out.
It's just,
you know, my brain dump.
And this brain dump will be used as
context for me to collaborate
with large language models to actually
make the presentation of
my slides. It's gonna be a website, right?
So,
and
think of this as like an interview, right?
This is an interview of my thought about a
subject.
It can be anything. And later on, I will
tell the large language model on based on
the speech, my, my, my, my, uh, speed of
speech, right.
Limit.
Uh, well, actually first collaborate with
me on a few headlines, like big sections
and talking points.
And once that's done, I'm going to ask it
to look at the trend, read the transcript
and understand that my, the pace of my
speech, how fast do I speak to time box
the
presentation into a certain amount of
minutes.
Right. Like I think in the end it's going
to be like anywhere between five to seven
minutes, definitely not 10. That's too
long.
Five to seven.
Then
after that,
well, actually, uh, the speech speed, uh,
it should be faster than this transcript
because I will be more prepared instead of
just pausing and doing brain dump.
Right.
Then the mega idea is that during the
presentation, I will be showing many
different
projects.
And as I'm showing these many different
projects,
I'm actually going to like on this
presentation website, I'm actually going
to
start from a video of a talking head of me
talking to Claude and make this exact
presentation live, collaborating with
it. So you can think of it as like a five
to seven minute talking head into
the camera. I record that video.
then I transcribe it, then I feed it into
Claude because the sub-titles
have the timestamps, Claude can understand
at
what time what is being spoken and it can
match the content on the website
based on what's being said in the video,
right?
So that's the idea. So
that's the beginning of this
open and closing loop that's the starting
the slideshow
that's the most important meta point I
want to give and the reason I can do this
is
because I have the skill called exporting
export coding session where every time
when I talk to quad or any other
large language model I export the
transcript afterwards right so all of
these
contexts are saved and I can just point
the LLM into those context file and
spin off a million sub-agents and make the
slide show for me.
All I gotta do to make a website, to make
the website in sync with what I'm saying
now, is just by looking at the camera and
tell the audience that, hey,
this is XYZ and Claude would know to pull
out XYZ and make a
really pretty Awwward-winning website for
it, right?
And the whole website is like a slider.
There's a slider at the bottom, just like
video, except when they slide,
that controls both the play time of my
video, the progress of my video and the
website itself, right? There's no static
page by page slides.
It's just a slider. It's a smooth
transitioning between different states,
right?
And it has to look really, really pretty.
So that's the meta point of closed loop.
When every context is saved, doing the
work is as easy as just saying
it. And that's it. Agents execute.
So that's
a closed loop. Now, when it comes to open
loop,
if everything is open loop, then what's
the point of a closed loop, right?
Because then humans should not just not
get involved.
No, that's not true. Here's the thing.
Every single person,
team,
organization, company, startup,
is a T-shaped organism where you have your
vertical, the vertical
part of the T, that's your depth,
something you or your team or your company
really
care about. This is your specialty.
You are the expert on this.
And the bar on the T is your breadth of
information, being the generalist, right?
Now, Large language models have been able
to just like extend that bar, the
generalist bar super, super wide.
Everyone has access to a lot of things,
which is great, but every company still
need
to choose what is your vertical shape?
What is your T right? Well, what is that
vertical on that T?
So what does that mean? Well, that means
you should only open the loop when you
provide value.
Okay. So, um,
Yeah, so like when you provide value, you
can't afford to slow down the system.
If this is not something you care about,
you shouldn't open the loop.
Just let it self-iterate. And you may say,
well, I can do a better job.
This is the economy part of it.
Econ 101, just because you're better at
something, that's your absolute advantage,
does not mean it is your comparable
advantage, does not mean you should do it
manually, right? Yes. If you say, I can
write code better than large language
models, I believe you. You are a smart
engineer.
But
just because you can do it better doesn't
mean it's worth your time to do it, right?
Even though large language models can do a
worse job, they're still so much cheaper
than you, and nowadays models are so good.
They can solve a lot of coding problems,
right?
So,
yeah, like, Really think about what is the
unique perspective you can get out of it
as a human.
Or sorry, now you can get out, you can
provide as a human, right?
I didn't sleep well last night, anyway.
Yeah, only open the loop when you provide
value, right?
So that's kind of the basic concept and, I
really want to hone in on this idea of
this closed loop, using large language
models as the operating system,
right? Most people at corporations don't
understand that.
What does that even mean? That means every
single decision has to go through this
operating system layer. Every single
conversation, every single meeting, every
single, not just line of code, every
single thought has to go through the
system.
The purpose of using large language model
for everything is not because they
are better at these things. It's not,
right?
Really, really emphasize this during the
presentation.
The real reason they are better at, well,
sorry.
The real reason we use them is so that we
can record
how we human reached a conclusion.
What's the journey? The end path, the end
goal does not matter where you land.
It doesn't matter that much.
How you get there, the journey to get
there really matters.
And that's why going through large
language model layer is so important
because you
have to give it your context.
Without that, you know, everything is just
slop, right?
So imagine, for example, in corporation,
it's very common for people to write slide
decks and reports.
Why do we need to write reports?
Because, well, you need to think about
who's your audience and depending on who's
the type of audience, you need to, you
know, write different type of reports,
right?
They may care about different things.
And that's a very static decision you have
to make at the time when you produce
content. However, if you use a large
language system as the
operating system, every single thing flow
through there.
Then what you can do is asking, let's say,
five or ten agents to give you five or
ten different versions of your
documentation and reports and slides and
show it to
you. You just pick the one you think you
like or feel you approve.
When someone requests something, then send
it over, right?
So it becomes a passive system that's
constantly collecting your context.
You don't need to write a report.
When someone wants to report, they can ask
the system.
The system... automatically finds the
owner of these information
and construct the report and send the
report automatically to the owner for
approval.
And once that's done, it sends it to the
person that requested these, right?
So
a lot of things can change in this world,
but people are not thinking in that way
because people see large language models
as the tool, as the library, not as a
framework, right?
So yeah, you know,
if we want to use these tools to their
fullest extent, you have to fundamentally
change your workflow, right?
Okay, and that's my brain dump about the
philosophy part of it and the economy part
of it. Oh, another very important thing we
have to highlight
is that the math of it,
the probability of
agents succeed goes down exponentially as
you spin up multiple parallel agents,
right? So what does that mean?
Well, even if each agent only have a 30%
of chance to
be successful at a task,
if you spin up 10 agents, the probability
of success is one minus 0.7, powered by
10.
And that number is 97%, right?
Which is insane. That's a very, very high
percentage.
Now you may argue that each agent may not
have 30% of the chance of succeeding, then
that's fair.
But you know, the math is there.
So
yeah, use math to your advantage, right?
Don't work against it.
Okay, so that's my brain dump, mostly.
This is another part of the presentation.
When we show these closed loops, we need
to find a few repositories inside the
projects. The first one is the AlphaZero
project.
That's the reinforcement learning
framework I've been working on.
A lot of context and documentation are
saved, so that's good.
The other one is the Power Monitor, which
monitors my,
you know computers power power usage to
for machine learning training right like
alpha zero
and it also monitors GPU usage and also
has machine learning training information
I
will show some screenshots of these on the
slides and also link to it and maybe a
live demo I'm not sure yet okay and also
my own website my personal website with
the art with like my own character in my
art, right? And I want to show the
audience that the arm cutout and all of
that is
done by the Sapiens, Facebook's Sapiens
library, right?
It's not done manually, right?
Then another self-improving system I want
to show off is the
coding agent's skills, right?
Or coding agent skills repository, which
have a lot of skills that's
written by large language model first I
prompt the language model to write
a skill that improves another skill right
so this is the open closed loop
part
if you close the loop and define metric
and outcome right the skill that improves
other skill can just keep trying keep
trying keep iterating the skill
so that the skill gets better and better
and I can just copy paste that skill into
other repositories
Okay, well, that's a lot. That was 20
minutes.
We need to condense this into a five
minute version, polished slides, right?
This is the first wave of brain dump.
I may present more.
I may ask you to summarize it later
to a more distilled version.
We'll see. But yeah, this is the first
draft.